# MSU announces new bachelor’s degree in learning, user experience design
* * *
Contact: Bethany Shipp
STARKVILLE, Miss.—Mississippi State is launching a new bachelor’s degree this August to prepare students for cutting-edge careers in learning and user experience design, one of the fastest growing career fields.
Greg Francom, associate professor of instructional design and LUX program coordinator, instructs Carter Peeples, an MSU senior ITS major from Brandon. MSU is launching a new bachelor’s degree this fall to prepare students for cutting-edge careers in learning and user experience design, one of the fastest growing career fields. (Photo by Bryce Mitchell)
Housed in the College of Education’s Department of Industrial Technology, Instructional Design, and Community College Leadership, MSU’s new Bachelor of Science in Learning and User Experience Design is the result of a major makeover of MSU’s current information technology services degree program being phased out this fall. The new degree was created in consultation with an industry expert to equip students for today’s dynamic design landscape.
Career paths include user experience/user interface (UX/UI) designer, learning experience designer, instructional designer, interaction designer and product manager. According to the World Economic Forum’s [Future of Jobs Report 2025](https://www.weforum.org/stories/2025/01/future-of-jobs-report-2025-the-fastest-growing-and-declining-jobs/), UX and UI designers rank 8th in the fastest growing jobs.
Students in the new program will gain skills to design educational tools, intuitive apps and innovative interfaces that inspire and engage users. They can choose an emphasis to enhance their skills in a specialized area, such as art and graphic design, data science, information technology services and product development. MSU’s program is a standout in the Southeast in that it focuses on both learning and user experience.
“We designed this program to include skills needed to prepare students to be successful in the user experience and learning experience fields after graduation,” said Greg Francom, associate professor of instructional design and LUX program coordinator. “Not many people know there are great jobs in these fields at the intersection of design, learning, technology and psychology, where you can start a career right after a bachelor’s degree. If you have an interest in any of these areas but don’t want to be limited to just one, this could be a great program for you.”
Vance Durrington, head of the Department of Industrial Technology, Instructional Design, and Community College Leadership, added, “This degree represents a strategic step forward in aligning our academic offerings with the evolving needs of today’s workforce. We’re proud to offer a program that blends design thinking, instructional systems and user-centered technology to prepare students for impactful careers in both education and industry.”
For more information, contact Francom at greg.francom@msstate.edu.
MSU’s College of Education, home of the Department of Industrial Technology, Instructional Design, and Community College Leadership, also includes four additional academic departments, a division of education, one research unit and numerous service units. Learn more at <https://www.educ.msstate.edu>.
Mississippi State University is taking care of what matters. Learn more at www.msstate.edu.
  * [ ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_rYsq0IfHHR5ysJfLFe9bQ)


