[Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/) › [Department of History](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/index.html) › [ Graduate ](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/graduate/index.html) › [ Graduate Students ](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/graduate/students/index.html) › Dissertations in Progress 
# Dissertations in Progress
## Abstracts:
## Wyatt Erchak, Summer 2025
Advisors: Scott Sandage and Edda Fields-Black
Private Wrongs: A Hidden History of the American Civil War's First Black Union Regiment.
This project explores the actions of formerly enslaved men and their kinship networks in the Lowcountry South who voted with their feet for a general strike against slavery and for “joining the black ranks,” the first to enter the Union Army yet virtually unknown to history. Whether facing those who claimed ownership over their bodies and labor, or the material and social structures of the slavery economy, the ranks of the First South Carolina Volunteers fought on battlefields far removed from the likes of Gettysburg. In such fights, they “had private wrongs to avenge.” This study thus narrates their war within the Civil War: a fight not only to secure freedom but also personal justice and even revenge for the crimes of enslavement. Its central themes are continuity and circularity, exploring how prewar lives and labor flowed into and informed wartime actions and fluid identities. I seek to address challenges posed by scholars who argue for framing the Civil War within specifically Atlantic “slave rebellion” contexts. By asking how understandings of the conflict are changed by placing it in conversation with the long durée of uprisings by enslaved and laboring people in the revolutionary Atlantic World, this study proposes a reevaluation of long-held, monolithic assumptions about Black soldiers and their motivations, and thus a new history of the Civil War. This project aims to develop and tell for the first time the hidden stories of the Black ranks, their white allies, and how they worked to destroy slavery from below.
## Alex Tabor, Spring 2025
Advisor: Scott Sandage
From Public Welfare to Human Services: The Roles of Local Voluntary Organizations and Government In Allegheny County, 1922-1997
Between 1922-1997, local voluntary organizations like the Federation of Social Agencies, Community Chest, and Pennsylvania Economy League, Western Division established, coordinated, funded, and refined the performance of programs and services characteristic of Allegheny County’s modern Department of Human Services. These organizations pioneered early systems that cultivated public-private interagency partnerships and intergovernmental relationships to shape child and older adult welfare policies, programs, and services. They developed systems for collecting client and provider service data, conducted critical analysis and produced influential research studies, and harnessed expertise acquired across decades of leadership before local government involvement to advocate for the creation of government services and shape their subsequent evolution. Their efforts carved out distinct child and older adult welfare services from late-nineteenth century legacy institutions like the juvenile court and workhouse. After county government created these services in the 1960s, voluntary organizations argued for further child and adult welfare reform--that distinct services be considered elements of a comprehensive, holistic program that ultimately became ACDHS.
## Michael White, Spring 2025
Advisor: Joe Trotter
Black Pittsburgh’s Healthcare Experience, 1941-1996
My dissertation will examine the transformation of health and health care within Pittsburgh’s African American community from World War II through the close of the 20th
## Jahan Choudhry, Summer 2025
Advisor: Nico Slate
World Peace: Visions from India and Afro-America 1945-1991
This dissertation will examine the relationship between nationalism and internationalism within the global peace movement, with a particular focus on African American and South Asian contexts. This project is informed by historiography in modern South Asian history, transnational African American history, and historiography on the emergence of the Third World project. Scholars have done work to combine perspectives from diplomatic history, transnational social movements, and transnational intellectual history into these fields. These works provide fertile ground for new projects to further develop connections between modern African American and South Asian histories of internationalism.
This project will examine the relationship of the African American and South Asian activists to the global peace movement from 1945-1991. It will analyze how the broad Black Freedom Struggle and the Indian Freedom Struggle related to the struggle for world peace. It will pay special attention to the role of ideas emerging from these two movements as they relate to the struggle for world peace. A working hypothesis is that activists from both movements saw the struggle for world peace as essential for fulfilling the visions their movements strove for. At the same time, the anti-colonial and anti-racist ideas emerging from these movements meant that they sought remold the peace movement to incorporate these ideas. This process means that peace activism was a means by which grassroots activists could engage in the broad Bandung vision which has usually been associated with states and government officials.
The World Peace Council as an organization including activists from the First, Second, and Third Worlds will be examined as a forum in which these activists worked and in which they brought in ideas from the respective movements of their peoples for independence and civil rights. The association of the WPC with organizations associated with the Black and Indian Freedom Struggles such as the Southern Christian Leadership Council, Communist Party USA, Communist Party of India, and Indian National Congress will be examined. The ways in which all of these organizations worked with ordinary people as well as used access to the levers of state power will be analyzed.
## James Leach, Spring 2025
Advisor: Chris Phillips
Social Science and the Aging Mind in Twentieth-Century America
My dissertation examines how twentieth-century American social scientists studied the aging process, and how their research was applied in corporate retirement systems, age-based discrimination law, and personal health practices. I argue that, between the 1940s and the 1980s, social scientists first made and then unmade a monolithic notion of “normal” aging. The first half of the dissertation follows an interdisciplinary group of researchers at the University of Chicago, one of the first groups to approach aging from a sociological and psychological rather than medical perspective. These researchers were influenced by the established field of child developmentalism, borrowing research tools as well as the midcentury preoccupation with proper social adjustment for children. As a result, the research projects that emerged from Chicago were aimed at producing well-adjusted elderly people, who retired at 65 and moved seamlessly from a life of work to one of leisure. Examining this research reveals how the social sciences helped construct and reinforce expectations of a normal life cycle. The second half of the dissertation follows the field of life-span developmental psychology as it emerged in the 1960s and grew in the 1970s and 1980s. While this group also borrowed ideas from child developmentalism, technical innovations in psychometrics and research methodology complicated their understanding of how to measure normality in the elderly. The goal of life-span developmental psychology was not proper adjustment but “successful aging,” with a focus on the maintenance of cognitive abilities into old age. This program fit well with a growing movement for elderly rights, which positioned itself against stereotypes of the elderly as victims of inevitable mental decline. Life-span developmental psychology was deployed as evidence in the legislative push that banned mandatory retirement in the United States. The history of aging research thus connects developments in labor relations, discrimination law, and research design to broader expectations of what a normal life looks like.
## Arko Dasgupta, Summer 2025
Advisor: Nico Slate
The Colour of Anticolonialism: Locating Antiracism in the Indian Freedom Struggle, 1893-1964
This dissertation attempts to map conceptions of race in the Indian freedom struggle, with an emphasis on underscoring antiracist thought and how it linked to broader anticolonial imaginations. It will look at the writings and activism of several key figures and organisations from the late colonial period in British India; while they all came from the Indian subcontinent, many of these individuals and groups spent time and/ or were based elsewhere. The study will, as a result, transnationalise the Indian freedom struggle by using antiracism as an entry point; along the way, it will look at Indian anticolonialism’s ties to Black America and antiimperialist networks in Europe, especially Britain. My principal thesis remains that antiracism gave the disparate components of the Indian political elite a cohesion that differences of ideology and personality often did not permit. I am mindful of the fact that certain political figures and groupings did not lend antiracism the primacy or singularity that others did; I am also aware that there were those whose struggle against racism was linked to and complicated by other crusades. Having recognised these complexities, I persist in maintaining my main contention: antiracism brought together a wide swathe of native political actors in India and also contributed to globalising the Indian freedom struggle both in terms of establishing networks and bases elsewhere and permitting expressions of solidarity with other anticolonial and antiracist movements.
## Crystal Brandenburgh, Spring 2026
Advisor: Lisa Tetrault
Peace Work: The National Committee on the Cause and Cure of War and the Transformation of White Women's Organizing After Suffrage
The interwar women's peace movement directed the energies of millions of American women to beat back the rising tide of militarism, conceptualize a world without war, and capitalize on the successful campaign behind the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution. My dissertation uses the National Committee on the Cause and Cure of War (NCCCW), a massive peace coalition, to argue that, in a period commonly known as the "doldrums of American feminism," white women in post-1920 politics used their experience and organizing prowess to vie for power and influence in the most consequential debates of the era.
## Lauren Churilla, Spring 2026
Advisor: Lisa Tetrault
Gender, Sexual Violence, and Contested Space in Progressive Era Pittsburgh, 1880-1930
My dissertation explores the complicated politics of street harassment from 1880 to the late 1930s in the context of one urban space, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. During these decades, street harassment emerged as a publicly prominent topic, appearing regularly within the courts and newspapers of cities across America. This relatively new phenomena—as least in public discourse—gives pause to the many celebratory affirmations about the New Woman’s independence. It forces us to confront how women, as they moved autonomously around big cities, were assaulted and harassed in an effort to curb their independence. It reminds us that no understanding of women’s lives can be reached without a consideration of the violence they face every day. Yet we have almost no scholarship addressing this Progressive-era phenomena. As a  
result, we have not been able to effectively grapple with precisely which freedoms the New Woman did or did not enjoy. And we have overlooked how resisting gender violence occupied their lives in a decisive fashion. When we pay attention to this, we get closer to a broader picture of how women pursued and fought for their right to live independent lives. In a moment of large-scale movements such as #MeToo, Stop Street Harassment, and Hollaback!, this dissertation allows us to historically contextualize this a much longer campaign for women’s autonomy and bodily integrity.
## Stacey Akines, Spring 2026
Advisor: Nico Slate
Black Home Education: An Intellectual History
The history of Black home education has been overlooked by historians, not only because the terms schooling and education are generally used interchangeably within the field, but because traditional Anglo-Saxon educational frameworks do not epistemologically recognize Black educational values and ways of learning and knowing. This dissertation asserts that the origins of Black home education are rooted in the Black Intellectual tradition and occur in Black spaces similar to that which bell hooks refer to as homeplace. Black home education has been neither traditional homeschooling nor black homeschooling. I argue that, over the twentieth century, Black home education has manifested as political community educations which strive towards Black liberation and have been inclusive of all age groups from babies to the elders and it has not been simply a pre-kindergarten through 12th grade process. This dissertation bears witness to four episodes of Black home education in the United States spanning the twentieth century.
## Matthew Turetsky, Spring 2027
Advisor: John Soluri
Conserving "Lost Crops": Agrobiodiversity, Food Sovereignty, and the Commodification of Quinoa in Twentieth-Century Peru and Bolivia
Two defining consequences of twentieth-century agriculture have been the immense loss of biodiversity on farms and the centralized control of biodiversity in corporate and government seed banks.   
Beginning in the 1930s, Latin American agronomists began to fear that traditional, native crops like quinoa were endangered. More recently, environmental historians of Latin America have documented the social, economic, and political factors that accelerated this biodiversity loss. This dissertation challenges the narrative of precipitous crop diversity loss by showing how biodiversity persisted on Quechua and Aymara in the Peruvian and Bolivian altiplano in the twentieth century. It follows quinoa trom smallholder farms to kitchens, restaurants, and seed banks to understand the local, national, and transnational forces that shaped Andean crop diversity. This study uses records from provincial and national archives, agricultural development projects, cookbooks, and seed bank accession data. I argue that conserving quinoa depended on the state's ability to remake highland agriculture, the market's desire to incorporate pseudocereals into modern diets, and farmers' efforts to maintain food sovereignty.
## Kari Thomas, Spring 2027
Advisor: Christopher Phillips
Remembering Blair Mountain: History as a Mode of Memory in a Digital Age
In late August 1921, thousands of United Mine Workers of America battled local and state law enforcement at Blair Mountain, West Virginia, the largest labor uprising on U.S. soil. In the century since, a variety of special interest groups have tried to create a collective memory of the Battle of Blair Mountain and put it to political use. Immediately following the violence, West Virginia's state government and the coal industry crafted an official narrative that silenced memories of militant labor activism in favor of revisionist accounts of harmony between miners and coal operators. In the 1960s, activists revived public consciousness of Blair Mountain in order to encourage a new wave of activism, but they also embedded their own biased conceptions of race, class, and gender within this counter-memory. Thus, the 1960s generation of scholars inadvertently limited those who could use the memory of Blair Mountain to just white, working-class men. The digital folk memory of Blair Mountain that has emerged since relies on an unstable bundle of tropes that represents a fusion of the state's official memory and activists' counter-memory. And despite the efforts of many social justice movements to use this folk memory for their own causes, the memory still belongs to reactionary white men.
## Thea Liu, Spring 2027
Advisor: Benno Weiner
Rethinking Warlordism: Navigating Social Reconstruction, Nationhood, and State-Building Amid Political Fragmentation
If internal political struggles influenced the negative reputation of “warlords” and if the junfa were not all as bad as they were “painted,” what role did “warlords” actually play during this era? This dissertation unveils an untold chapter of Republican China, where “warlords” emerge not as chaotic militarists but as unlikely architects of state-building. By reframing these regional powerholders—often dismissed as obstacles to progress—as key players in social reform, the study delves into their pivotal roles in the anti-footbinding movement, anti-religious campaigns, and rural administrative reforms. This narrative challenges the traditional lens of centralization, revealing how, amid political disunity, these “warlords” laid the foundations for modernization and national identity, working in unexpected parallel with the central government. In doing so, it invites a fresh understanding of China's tumultuous journey toward a unified state and reimagines “warlordism” as a driving force in China’s evolution.
## Alicia Johnson, Spring 2027
Advisor: Nico Slate
_Shaping Blackness_
The 1893 Columbian World's Exposition in Chicago is heralded as the moment of technological, commercial, scientific, and economic success that ushered in the 20th century. Yet, from the Roman Greco architecture meant to connect the United States to an illustrious past, to the ordering of races from the most civilized to the least, the fair distorted history, science, cultures and commerce to create a vision for, and version of, the U.S. that never existed. Foremost in this delusion was the creation of the permanent periphery in the form of Blackness that would serve to control the remainder of society. This dissertation uses the fair to discuss the creation of a permanent Black periphery and the resistance by Black Americans to their exclusion from the fair, society, and the history being presented that their labor made possible. Rather than focusing on industry and empire at the fair, I discuss the fair as pivotal to a social order designed to create the means for the expansion of capitalism using Blackness across the globe as a permanent periphery.
