[Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/) › [Department of History](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/index.html) › [ People ](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/people/index.html) › [ Faculty ](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/people/faculty/index.html) › Edda L. Fields-Black 
#  Edda L. Fields-Black 
##  Professor, Director of Dietrich College Humanities Center 
Contact
  * Baker Hall 231 B
  * fieldsblack(through)cmu.edu


## Bio
WINNER - 2025 Pulitzer Prize in History
WINNER - 2025 Gilder Lehrman Lincoln Prize
WINNER - 2025 Tom Watson Brown Book Award
WINNER - 2024 George C. Rogers Jr. Award
WINNER - 2024 Marsha M. Greenlee History Award
HONORABLE MENTION - 2025 James A. Rawley Prize
FINALIST - 2025 Mark Lynton History Prize
FINALIST - 2025 ASALH Book Prize
**["The Best Nonfiction Books of 2024," Bloomberg.com](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2024-12-31/the-best-nonfiction-books-of-2024?embedded-checkout=true)  
["Also Recommended" among the "Best Books of 2024, The New Yorker](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/history/people/faculty/fields-black.html)**
Best Civil War Books of 2024," Civil War Monitor"Top 10 History Books: 2024," BooklistOxford University Press Best "Books of 2024"
  
Dr. Edda L. Fields-Black is Professor in the Department of History and Director of the Dietrich College Humanities Center at Carnegie Mellon University. Her research specialty is the trans- national history of West African rice farmers, peasant farmers in pre-colonial Upper Guinea Coast and enslaved laborers on rice plantations in the antebellum South Carolina and Georgia Lowcountry. Throughout her career, Fields-Black has used interdisciplinary sources and methods to uncover the voices of historical actors in pre-colonial West Africa and the African Diaspora who did not author written sources.
Fields-Black won the 2025 Pulitzer Prize in History, the 2025 Gilder Lehrman Lincoln Prize, the 2025 Tom Watson Brown Book Award, and the 2024 George C. Rogers Jr. Award for COMBEE: Harriet Tubman, the Combahee River Raid, and Black Freedom during  _the Civil War_(Oxford University Press, trade list, February 2024). This narrative history tells the untold story of the Combahee River Raid from the perspective of Tubman and the enslaved people she helped to free based on new sources not previously used by historians, as well as new interpretations of sources familiar to Tubman’s biographers. It is the story of Harriet Tubman’s Civil War service during which she worked as a cook and nurse in Beaufort, SC, and gathered intelligence among freed people and enslaved Blacks. It is the story of enslaved people who labored against their wills on seven rice plantations, ran for their lives, boarded the US gunboats, and sailed to freedom.
  
A deep reading of 160+ US Civil War Pension Files primarily from the two companies of the 2nd South Carolina Volunteers (SSCV)/US Colored Troops (USCT) 34 th Regiment formed after the Raid, reveals the identities of the spies, scouts, and pilots recruited/led by Tubman and hundreds of men, women, and children freed in the Combahee River Raid. Years after the Civil War had ended, the veterans, their widows, children, and neighbors testified about their lives and relatives on Combahee River rice plantations: who were their parents, siblings, spouses, children, cousins tracing back four generations, and childhood friends; where they were born; who held them in bondage; where they were on June 2 nd 1863; what happened during the Raid when Colonel James Montgomery and the “Yankee gunboats” came up the river and “took all of the colored people off” to freedom; and, what became of them, both during and after the war. This is the first time we know what happened during the Combahee River Raid and hear the freedom-seekers tell their story in their own voices.
COMBEE[Picturing ](https://www.gibbesmuseum.org/programs-events/picturing-freedom-visually-retracing-the-freedom-seekers-journey-through-art/961)[Freedom: Harriet Tubman and the Combahee River Raid](https://www.gibbesmuseum.org/programs-events/picturing-freedom-visually-retracing-the-freedom-seekers-journey-through-art/961),” an art exhibit based on COMBEE
  
Fields-Black’s first monograph **Deep Roots: Rice Farmers in West Africa and the African Diaspora** uses a unique blend of interdisciplinary sources and methods to chronicle the development of tidal rice-growing technology by the inhabitants of the West African Rice Coast region, the region where the majority of captives disembarking in South Carolina and Georgia originated. By integrating linguistic evidence, biological and botanical studies of mangrove ecosystems, oral traditions, and travelers’ accounts from the first European traders to visit the coastal region, Deep Roots reconstructs a historical period pre-dating the first written sources for the region and beginning more than a millennium before the trans-Atlantic slave trade when both West African rice and rice farmers became important commodities. The narrative reveals the development of highly specialized and intensely localized agricultural technology and identities indigenous to West Africa’s coastal littoral. It presents a rare picture of dynamic early coastal West African societies, challenging Africanists’ assumptions that rice-growing technology diffused from the interior to the coast. A picture of a dynamic, diverse, highly specialized and localized pre-colonial Africa also stands in sharp contrast to Americanists’ constructions of a static, undifferentiated pre-modern Africa which acted as the progenitor of cultures in the African Diaspora. Deep Roots builds on the underlying premise of the comparative method of historical linguistics—inheritance, innovation, and borrowing—to fashion a theory of cultural change which is sufficiently open and elastic to encompass the diversity of communities, cultures, and forms of expression in Africa and the African Diaspora.
  
Fields-Black is also co-author of **Rice: Global Networks and New Histories** with Francesca Bray, Peter Coclanis, and Dagmar Schafer), which was awarded the Choice Outstanding Academic Title for 2015. She served as co-organizer of “New Histories of Rice Conference” sponsored by the Max Planck Institute for History of Science, Berlin, Germany in March 2011.
Her research has been funded by the Ford, Mellon, Woodrow Wilson, and Annenberg Foundations as well as by the Smithsonian Museum and Fulbright-Hays. Professor Fields-Black’s has received funding from the Henry Luce Foundation Project: The Greening of Early Undergraduate Education at Carnegie Mellon and the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation: Institute for the Study of Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Technology, the Berkman, Faulk, and ProSEED Funds. Professor Fields-Black serves as the Faculty Advisor for Carnegie Mellon’s African and African American Studies Minor.
She has also collaborated with scientists, artists and museum curators to bring these untold stories to life. Dr. Fields-Black is executive producer and librettist of “Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked: Requiem for Rice,” a contemporary classical and multimedia symphonic work and a contemporary symphonic work about slavery on rice plantations   
<https://eddafieldsblack.com/requiem>. “Unburied, Unmourned, Unmarked: Requiem for Rice” memorializes the sufferings and sacrifices of Africans enslaved on Lowcountry South Carolina and Georgia rice plantations and celebrates the critical role their ingenuity, technology, and industry played in the economy of the US South. She wrote the libretto, the text from which the project is based from primary sources. Three-time EMMY™ Award winning composer John Wineglass, composed the original score for orchestra, choir, and soloists.
  
The symphonic work first places the listener below decks of a slave ship making the atrocious journey from West Africa to America. The strings and woodwinds’ rapid scalar runs, ascending into the upper register just to immediately fall again, paired with unstable harmonies in the brass, the foreboding thud of the bass drum, and the intermittent clash of the chimes produce a chaotic effect, making one feel the turbulence of the waves, wind, and seasickness. Just as the mass of sound becomes truly overwhelming, the brass seamlessly transition into a fanfare transposed upward and repeated while the strings’ runs are melodic, but urgent. With a change in harmonic structure, mood is suddenly triumphant, carrying the enormity of the conditions the slaves survived but brimming over with pride at the work of their hands. The narration begins as the chilling libretto tells the lived experiences of the enslaved, all the more haunting with the orchestra and recorded sounds of the rice fields conjuring the setting. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
  
Dr. Fields-Black is principal investigator of a team of scientists: Dr. Andrew Agha of University of South Carolina Department of Anthropology, Dr. Rob Baldwin, Margaret H. Lloyd-SmartState Sustainability Chair, Professor, Clemson University, Department of the Forestry and Environmental Conservation; Dr. Travis Folk, Biologist, Folk Land Management, Inc.; Dr. Daniel Hanks, Aquatic Ecologist, The Weyerhaeuser Company; Dr. Dan Richter, Professor of Soils and Forest Ecology, Duke University, Nicholas School of the Environment; Dr. Ernest Wiggers, Biologist, Folk Land Management, Inc.; Dr. Andrew Bridges, President/CEO, Nemours Wildlife Foundation. The team of historian and scientists is engaged in a project, “‘Queen Rice’: How Enslaved Labor Transformed Wetland Landscapes and America,” an interdisciplinary 300-year study of the impact of enslaved labor on the coastal wetlands, the impact of the Lowcountry environment on enslaved communities, and best practices for conservation of Lowcountry’s rice fields in the face of climate change and sea level rise using archaeology, conservation, digital humanities, historical sources and analysis, pollen studies, soil science, and wildlife ecology. Dr. Fields-Black was the consultant for “The Power of Place: The Rice Fields of the Lowcountry” permanent exhibition at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture, an advisor for the “From Slavery to Freedom” permanent exhibition for the Senator John Heinz History Center in Pittsburgh, PA, a consultant and member of the program committee for the International African American Museum (IAAM) in Charleston, SC (curating the Africa gallery permanent exhibit in the concept stage and advising the West African Roots, Carolina Gold, and Gullah Geechee permanent galleries during production). Currently, Fields-Black serves as an advisor for the Lowcountry Project at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History.
## Education
Ph.D.: University of Pennsylvania, 2001 
  * [More Information](https://eddafieldsblack.com/)


## Courses Taught
  * “Comparative Slavery”
  * “Pre-Colonial African History: Earliest Times to1780’s”
  * “Modern African History: The Slave Trade to the End of Apartheid”
  * “The Making of the African Diaspora”
  * “Topics in the History of the African Diaspora” (Graduate Seminar)
  * “The Slave Passage”
  * “West African History in Film”


Department Member Since: 2001
