star twitter facebook envelope linkedin instagram youtube logo alert-red alert home left-quote chevron hamburger minus plus search triangle x
# Holly Newman
* * *
## Head of Business Operations, Oddworld Inhabitants
Holly Newman is a digital game studio, marketing, and production executive with more than 20 years of experience as an entrepreneurial leader with expertise from early stage to large growth companies.
Holly Newman has worked as a studio head and CEO, publishing EVP, and marketing executive on titles generating billions in revenue. Newman has built gaming teams from the ground up ranging from small scale to large teams, for gaming platforms including PC, Sony and Microsoft Consoles, web, social and mobile.
Newman began her career as a marketing coordinator at startup Acclaim Entertainment, the first North America based publisher for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Working her way up to director of marketing communications, Newman led marketing communications efforts for many of today’s best known and most beloved brands including the Mortal Kombat Series, WWF (now WWE), NBA Jam, Major League Baseball, The Simpsons, Spider-Man, and many others. During her time at Acclaim, the company grew from a small independent start up to one of the largest and most successful video game companies in the world.
In 1996, Newman joined video game publishing startup, GT Interactive Software. As VP of Marketing, Newman led the branding and marketing efforts behind the hugely successful game series Oddworld, Total Annihilation, and Unreal,
In 1999, Newman joined start up game publisher Crave Entertainment as its EVP of publishing. Newman was responsible for business development, marketing and product development and led the teams that closed major development deals with Westwood Studio spin off Liquid Entertainment, Irrational Games, and Barking Dog as well as major distribution partnerships with Electronic Arts and Ubisoft and the first ever game licensing deal for the UFC brand.
In 2002, Newman joined Liquid Entertainment as its CEO . Liquid was a video game developer serving a broad range of clients, including Atari, Paramount Pictures, Disney, Sega of America, The Wilson Center, and many others. Liquid developed games based on high profile brands such as Dungeons and Dragons, The Lord of the Rings, Desperate Housewives, Max Steel, and more. 
In 2016 Newman Founded 2063 Productions, a consultancy serving a select group of clients including Oddworld Inhabitants and Accelerate Games. 
Currently Newman is Head of Business Operations for Oddworld Inhabitants, maker of the iconic, multi award winning Oddworld series of games which has sold more than 25 million units. 
