star twitter facebook envelope linkedin instagram youtube logo alert-red alert home left-quote chevron hamburger minus plus search triangle x
# Bonnie Greenberg
* * *
## President, Ocean Cities Entertainment
Bonnie Greenberg has been at the forefront of entertainment integrating music and motion pictures for over three decades. She is one of the founding members of the Guild of Music Supervisors and continues to work tirelessly for the causes she believes in and serves all with her trademark integrity.
Bonnie Greenberg has been at the forefront of the entertainment business, integrating music and motion pictures for over three decades. Songs and scores she has executive produced have won Emmy, NAACP, and Golden Globe awards and have been nominated for Academy and Grammy awards.
Bonnie’s career began as an entertainment attorney. She has a law degree from Southwestern University School of Law, a master’s degree from Antioch College, and a Bachelor of Arts degree from The University of Denver. She was a business affairs executive at MCA Records and Paramount Pictures, then pivoted her talents to merge music and film to become a sought-after Music Supervisor. She’s used her considerable respect and goodwill in the industry on 80 plus films, including diverse classics such as ‘Menace II Society,” “What Women Want,” “The Parent Trap,” “My Best Friend’s Wedding,” “The Mask,” ‘The Best Man,” “Desperate Housewives,” “Tank Girl,” and “How the Grinch Stole Christmas.”
After getting a master’s degree in clinical psychology, Bonnie pivoted again, turning her attention to documentaries and films that shed light on issues, using music to help effectuate change in the world. These films include “The Hunting Ground,” “Cracked Up,” “Four Good Days,” “RBG,” and the upcoming documentaries “October H8te,” ‘Move Ya Body: The Birth of House Music,” and “The Wisdom of Happiness.” 
She has produced and executive produced numerous gold and platinum albums and received various awards, including the Hollywood Music in Media Best Music Supervision award for her work on the film “The Life Ahead” and an NAACP award for “The Best Man.” Most recently, the Guild of Music Supervisors selected her as the Legacy Award Recipient. She’s a Television Academy, Motion Picture Academy, and National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences member. She is one of the founding members of the Guild of Music Supervisors and serves on the benefits committee.
She is an adjunct professor at Carnegie Mellon’s Master of Entertainment Industry Management (MEIM) program and NYU-Los Angeles, where she teaches music supervision for motion pictures. Bonnie Greenberg continues to work tirelessly for the causes she believes in and serves all with her trademark integrity. 
