star twitter facebook envelope linkedin instagram youtube logo alert-red alert home left-quote chevron hamburger minus plus search triangle x
# Amanda Cash
* * *
## Adjunct Faculty
Dr. Amanda Cash is the director of the Office of Performance and Evaluation and the Chief Data Officer at the Administration for Community Living
Dr. Amanda Cash is the director of the Office of Performance and Evaluation and the Chief Data Officer at the Administration for Community Living, where she leads a team that focuses on evaluating ACL programs, conducting intramural and extramural research in support of policy and program relevant questions related to older adults and people with disabilities, and leading performance management efforts for Older Americans Act programs. She is an epidemiologist, and she has spent the last 17 years at various agencies at the Department of Health and Human Services including the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
At CMMI she was the director of the Division of Health Care Delivery, and led the development of how CMMI should address social determinants of health and health related social needs, and she led the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program. Prior to joining the CMS Innovation Center, she was the Director of the Division of Evidence, Evaluation, and Data Policy for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation (ASPE). She worked in ASPE for 10 years on public health, population health, and evaluation and data policy issues where she led various portfolios of research and policy analysis in support of HHS priorities such as antibiotic resistance, chronic disease prevention, preventive services, and implementing the Affordable Care Act and the public health delivery system. She earned her Doctor of Public Health in epidemiology from the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center College of Public Health.
## Contact
Amanda Cash acash@andrew.cmu.edu 
