star twitter facebook envelope linkedin instagram youtube logo alert-red alert home left-quote chevron hamburger minus plus search triangle x
# Lucienne Papon
* * *
Film & Television Producer and Executive
Lucienne Papon is an Executive and Producer with 20+ years’ experience inscripted television and film, including 100+ episodes of television development and production experience along with $200 million+ films in a variety of roles at studios, talent-led production companies, and as an independent producer. She has nine years of experience building a U.S.-based scripted TV studio arm for a large UK/European parent company and holds a deep knowledge of the domestic and international TV market, co-production and foreign distribution models, format adaptations, and global drama producers.
Papon most recently served as the Executive Vice President, Creative Affairs at ITV Studios America, where she oversaw scripted development and current programming for the U.S. market. Papon was responsible for managing the creative portfolio and for the start-up studio – focused on developing quality premium-scripted content based on a wide range of IP, including formats, books, films, articles, podcasts, and even a board game with sold projects across the broadcast, premium cable, and SVOD buyers. Notable productions include a wide range of budget and business models such as Franklin (starring Michael Douglas, directed by Tim Van Patten) on AppleTV+ and Good Witch (starring Catherine Bell and James Denton for seven seasons) for Hallmark. Papon served on the senior leadership team at ITV, supporting US scripted labels Tomorrow Studios (Snowpiercer, One Piece, Physical), Work Friends (Ten-Year-Old Tom), Bedrock, Circle of Confusion Television Studios, and Poison Pen, where she concentrated on growing ITV’s brand and profile in America as well as expanding ITV’s global reach in collaboration with international producers and partners from the UK, France, Germany, Denmark and the Nordics. As the only female on the senior leadership team, she curated and moderated educational and support programs, town halls, retreats, and interviews to build and define company culture, support the Women’s Network and DEI awareness, inspire personal growth and support mental health across the business.
Papon began her career working for talent-led production companies in feature film development. As Director Martin Campbell’s Head of Film and Television, she oversaw all aspects of film development for his production company, supervising production from script to delivery for films such as Casino Royale and The Legend of Zorro. She served as a co-producer on both Green Lantern and Edge of Darkness and also launched the company’s television division and oversaw a two-year deal at ABC Studios co-producing Killer Women for ABC. 
Papon graduated from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she was a Morehead-Cain Scholar and captain of the Rowing Team. She holds an MFA from the Producer’s Program at UCLA’s School of Film, Television and Digital Media, where she has also served as a guest lecturer and annual MFA Thesis Committee Member. She is a member of Women in Film, Film Independent, the Hollywood, Radio and Television Society and the Exceptional Women Alliance, a women’s executive mentorship foundation. She was the first recipient of the Producer’s Guild Debra Hill Fellowship and currently serves on the PGA fellowship's selection committee. Along with film and television, Papon has a passion for news and politics, sports, exercise and meditation, and travel near and far. She’s happiest drinking a negroni while watching her beloved Tar Heels compete in March Madness. She lives in Los Angeles with her husband, two boys and two very fluffy dogs.
## Additional Information
* * *
  * [ ](https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/faculty-research/profiles/papon-lucienne# "Education")
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill  
MFA, Producer’s Program at UCLA’s School of Film, Television and Digital Media


