[School of Computer Science](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/) › [Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department](https://cbd.cmu.edu/index.html) › [ Join Us ](https://cbd.cmu.edu/join-us/index.html) › Open Tenure Track Faculty Positions 
## Open Faculty Positions (All Tracks)
The [Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department](https://cbd.cmu.edu/index.html) within the [School of Computer Science](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/) (SCS) at Carnegie Mellon University, is seeking to hire new faculty who share our vision for how innovations in computational thinking can drive biomedical research. The department is a world leader in the development and implementation of rigorous computational approaches to biomedical research problems. We are specifically recruiting to the tenure track this year but will consider exceptional candidates for all tracks. 
Appointments will be made either entirely in the Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department or jointly with other departments in the University depending on the research focus and needs of the successful candidates. The Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department has extensive strengths in methods underlying personalized medicine, genomics and epigenetics, single-cell biology, image analysis and image-derived modeling, modeling and simulation of biological systems at various levels, automated and machine learning-driven laboratory science, and general application of algorithms and machine learning to biomedical problems. The faculty in the department include internationally recognized leaders in computational biology and play leadership roles in several large-scale NIH initiatives, including 4D Nucleome, HuBMAP, and SenNet. Applicants within these areas or from entirely new areas are welcomed. New faculty members will be expected to both contribute to and benefit from the collaborative spirit that is a hallmark of Carnegie Mellon University and from opportunities to collaborate with other institutions in the Pittsburgh region. We welcome candidates who will join or help establish cross-department research communities, including across SCS departments or between SCS and other CMU schools and colleges. Faculty in any of the SCS departments have advising privileges for students in any of the SCS Ph.D. programs.
Carnegie Mellon University shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR §§ 60-1.4(a), 60-300.5(a) and 60-741.5(a). These regulations prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities, and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Moreover, these regulations require that covered prime contractors and subcontractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment individuals without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, protected veteran status or disability.
.
