[Skip to content](https://labsync.sites.northeastern.edu/gravity/#content)
Dr. McCullough will be presenting “Turn, Run, Float: Dance, Science, Health and Technology” at Embry-Riddle Worldwide College of Arts & Sciences’ H-STEM Speaker Series on Wednesday, Nov. 12 from 3–4 p.m. EST. If you are curious about how dance, health, and technology intersect to advance discovery, join the event online by registering at this link!…
LABSYNC Members Anoushka Abroal and Arnibish Ray were both awarded the PEAK “Project-Based Exploration for the Advancement of Knowledge” Fellowship for 2025-2026! “PEAK Fellowships are a progressively structured sequence of opportunities designed to support learners as they continue climbing to new heights of achievement in undergraduate research and creative endeavor throughout their Northeastern journeys.” Abroal’s…
In a project led by Dr. Kris Dorsey, Drs. Aston K. McCullough, Meghan Hoffman, and Matthew Goodwin, will collaborate with the Marcus Autism Center at Emory University on a newly awarded Mind, Machine, and Motor Nexus (M3X) grant. The M3X program supports fundamental research that enables intelligent engineered systems and humans to engage in bidirectional…
Northeastern Global News featured LAB:SYNC in a recent video called “Is Dancing In Your Kitchen Exercise?” Click here to view the video! “New research by Aston McCullough, assistant professor of physical therapy, human movement and rehabilitation sciences, finds that dancing can have the same benefits as running and other forms of exercise. Dancers: Anoushka Abroal,…
LAB:SYNC has published a new article Use of posterior probabilities from a long short-term memory network for characterizing dance behavior with multiple accelerometers in the Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease….
LAB:SYNC’s Nandini Erodula will present “Does emotion regulation among 18- to 83-year-old adults correlate with artful movement?” . at International Association for Dance Medicine & Science (IADMS) 2025 Annual Conference. The four-day conference will be held from September 25 to September 28, 2025 in Las Vega, Nevada. Learn more about the IADMS 2025 Annual Conference here….
LAB:SYNC’s Catarina Bettencourt will present “Lower extremity muscle function and lifetime dance training in 18–83-year-old adults: a pilot study” at International Association for Dance Medicine & Science (IADMS) 2025 Annual Conference. The four-day conference will be held from September 25 to September 28, 2025 in Las Vega, Nevada. Learn more about the IADMS 2025 Annual Conference…
LAB:SYNC lab affiliate, Kai Yi (Kaye) Han will present “Do experiences of engaging in free-form dance relate to movement quality and well-being in adults?”at International Association for Dance Medicine & Science (IADMS) 2025 Annual Conference. The four-day conference will be held from September 25 to September 28, 2025 in Las Vega, Nevada. Learn more about the…
LAB:SYNC’s Dr. Aston K. McCullough will present “Relative physical activity intensity of group-based, online dancing among adults with Parkinson’s” at International Association for Dance Medicine & Science (IADMS) 2025 Annual Conference. The four-day conference will be held from September 25 to September 28, 2025 in Las Vega, Nevada. Learn more about the IADMS 2025 Annual…
LAB:SYNC Undergraduate Researchers, Catarina Bettencourt and Arnibish Ray, present at the inaugural Undergraduate Research Symposium in April 2025, hosted by the Brain Game Center at Northeastern. Bettencourt presented a poster, titled “Telomere Length, Cortisol, Body Composition, Hemodynamics, and Lifetime Participation in Dance: An Exploratory Analysis in 18–83-Year-Old Adults​,” and Ray presented a poster, titled “Applying…
## Recent Posts
  * [McCullough to present at Embry-Riddle Worldwide’s H-STEM Speaker Series](https://labsync.sites.northeastern.edu/2025/10/28/mccullough-to-present-at-embry-riddle-worldwides-h-stem-speaker-series/)
  * [LABSYNC members receive PEAK Fellowship](https://labsync.sites.northeastern.edu/2025/09/29/labsync-members-receive-peak-fellowship/)
  * [LAB:SYNC receives National Science Foundation Mind, Machine, and Motor Nexus (M3X) award](https://labsync.sites.northeastern.edu/2025/09/19/labsync-receives-national-science-foundation-mind-machine-and-motor-nexus-m3x-award/)
  * [LABSYNC featured by Northeastern Global News](https://labsync.sites.northeastern.edu/2025/07/01/labsync-featured-by-northeastern-global-news/)
  * [LABSYNC Published in the Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease](https://labsync.sites.northeastern.edu/2025/05/05/labsync-published-in-the-journal-of-alzheimers-disease/)


## Recent Comments
close menu
close search
