[Skip to content](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/internationalcenter/transnational-political-networks/#content)
Close [ Learn more about the Center’s flagship program, Transnational Political Networks ](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/internationalcenter/transnational-political-networks/)
[Subscribe](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf4pXQJKXQVNN86bz8GUU7_ETVNAvVmaDz89eTXl6UYRGPbSw/viewform)
# Transnational Political Networks
In October 2024, the Center launched its flagship program entitled, “Transnational Political Networks & The Future of Global Order.” Transnational political networks – groups of individuals who transcend national boundaries – are major forces shaping global order, even despite great power competition. They have championed groundbreaking ideas for international cooperation across a wide range of issue areas, such as climate change, nuclear weapons, outer space, and artificial intelligence. Under [Professor Mai’a Cross’s leadership, the Center for International Affairs and World Cultures](https://nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fnews.northeastern.edu%2F2024%2F10%2F09%2Fcarnegie-grant-maia-cross%2F&data=05%7C02%7Cd.atoui%40northeastern.edu%7C0eca88890c61498684ac08dceec09109%7Ca8eec281aaa34daeac9b9a398b9215e7%7C0%7C0%7C638647758039450001%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=f9Oya3a8mLUDGVI0f%2FCkRJWw73Mm0CxPS5tBMIf7A3A%3D&reserved=0) aims to break new ground in the investigation of transnational political networks through its focus on the types of networks that matter and how they gain influence. At both the societal and elite levels, certain networks have social power, derived from the legitimacy of their ideas, which are often ultrasocial in nature (i.e. inclusive, empathic, and aimed at the common good), global, and transformational.
This flagship project (1) investigates why certain transnational political networks achieve (or fall short of) breakthroughs in international cooperation that were previously thought impossible, (2) identifies emerging issue areas where their impact is being felt, and (3) translates that knowledge into practical steps that empower these actors to contribute to solutions to disruptions in global order. Please see here for regular updates on this important work.
Support for this project is provided by a grant from Carnegie Corporation of New York. Carnegie Corporation of New York is a philanthropic foundation created by Andrew Carnegie in 1911 to do “real and permanent good in this world.”
View our Call for Papers
View our Case Studies
View our Policy Insights
## Project Leader
  * ### [Mai’a Cross Dean’s Professor of Political Science, International Affairs, and Diplomacy; Director of the Center for International Affairs and World Cultures Mai’a K. Davis Cross is the Dean’s Professor of Political Science, International Affairs, and Diplomacy and Director of the Center for International Affairs & World Cultures at Northeastern University. She is also a Member of the Council on Forei… ](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/faculty/maia-cross/)


## Our Partners
We are working with the following partners to co-host upcoming workshops on transnational political networks in Dublin, Oslo, and New Delhi. 
  * ### [Ben Tonra Full Professor of International Relations, University College of Dublin Ben Tonra, MRIA is a Full Professor of International Relations at University College Dublin’s (UCD) School of Politics and International Relations. His academic focus includes European foreign, security, and defence policy; Irish foreign, security, and defence policy; and International Relations theory. ](https://people.ucd.ie/ben.tonra)
  * ### [Marianne Riddervold Research Professor, Norwegian Institute of International Affairs  Marianne Riddervold is research professor at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs (NUPI), Professor of International Relations/comparative politics at Innlandet University Norway, and Senior Fellow at the UC Berkeley Institute of European Studies. She has published extensively on European integration, transatlantic relations and international relations in the Global Commons.  ](https://www.nupi.no/en/about-nupi/employees/researchers/marianne-riddervold)
  * ### [Sreeram Chaulia Professor and Dean of International Affairs, O.P. Jindal Global University Dr. Sreeram Chaulia is Professor and Dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs, and Director General of the Jindal India Institute of O.P. Jindal Global University, in Sonipat, India. He is a leading opinion columnist for Dainik Jagran (Hindi) and Hindustan Times (English) on world affairs and a commentator on international current issues on radio and television. He anchors the ‘Indian Diplomacy’ TV show on India’s national broadcaster Doordarshan. He is a contributing editor for ‘People Who Influenced the World’ (Murray Books, 2005), and has authored ‘International Organizations and Civilian Protection: Power, Ideas and Humanitarian Aid in Conflict Zones’ (I.B. Tauris, 2011), ‘Politics of the Global Economic Crisis: Regulation, Responsibility and Radicalism’ (Routledge, 2013), ‘Modi Doctrine: The Foreign Policy of India’s Prime Minister’ (Bloomsbury, 2016), ‘Trumped: Emerging Powers in a Post-American World’ (Bloomsbury, 2019) and ‘Crunch Time: Narendra Modi’s National Security Crises’ (Rupa, 2022). His latest book, FRIENDS: INDIA’S CLOSEST STRATEGIC PARTNERS, has just been published by Rupa in 2024. He tweets on global developments @sreeramchaulia  ](https://jgu.edu.in/jsia/prof-dr-sreeram-sundar-chaulia/)


