# Lab Members
# Director
#### Erin Meier, Ph.D., CCC-SLP
Lab Director
Dr. Erin Meier earned her M.S. in Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences from Purdue University in 2008 and graduated with her Ph.D. in Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences from Boston University in 2018 under the mentorship of Dr. Swathi Kiran. From 2018-2020, she completed a post-doctoral fellowship in Vascular Neurology at The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine under the guidance of Dr. Argye Hillis. Since her time as a practicing speech-language pathologist in the greater Chicago area (2009-2013), Erin has worked towards bettering the lives of adults with acquired communication disorders. Her research interests include the neurological bases of language in disease processes and mechanisms of language recovery after stroke. She is passionate about finding ways to maximize functional communication and quality of life outcomes for individuals with aphasia and other acquired cognitive-communicative disorders.
Emaile.meier@northeastern.edu
Phone
Office
Resume/CV:[Download](https://tanlab.sites.northeastern.edu/emeier_cv_updated_4-30-2024/)
# Lab Staff
#### Veronica Fletcher, M.S. CCC-SLP
Lab Coordinator
Veronica is a licensed speech-language pathologist practicing in the acute care and inpatient rehabilitation settings. She earned her M.S. in Communication Sciences and Disorders from Columbia University Teachers College in 2020. She has a broad research background spanning the fields of neuroscience, psychology, and language – including 4 years’ experience as a graduate research assistant and project coordinator in Dr. Lisa Edmonds’ Aphasia Rehabilitation and Bilingualism Lab. Veronica joined TAN Lab in 2023. When she’s not in the lab or at the hospital, she can be found coaching synchronized swimming for a local youth team, cooking elaborate vegetarian meals, and spending time outdoors with her husband and dog.
# Graduate Research Assistants
#### Lauren Belham
Lauren Belham is a second-year student in the M.S SLP program at Northeastern University. She earned her B.A in Speech & Language Pathology from Loyola University Maryland and graduated in May of 2023. Lauren is interested in working with adults in the medical setting to improve their communication and swallowing. She is studying post-stroke aphasia for the Connectivity of Language in Early Aphasia Recovery (CLEAR) research project. In her free time, she enjoys going to the beach and spending time with her friends, family, and her dog.
#### Izzy Cotenoff
Izzy is a second-year student in the M.S. SLP Program at Northeastern. She earned her B.S. in Neurobiology from the University of California, Davis in 2022 and B.S. in Speech & Hearing Science from the University of Washington in 2023. Izzy is interested in working with adults in medical settings to improve and maintain their communication and swallowing skills. She joined the lab in January 2024 and is involved in conducting behavioral testing for the Connectivity of Language in Early Aphasia Recovery (CLEAR) research project. In her free time, she enjoys reading, spending time with her dogs, and going for long walks.
#### Skylar Jennings
Skylar is a second year M.S.-SLP student who joined TAN Lab in Fall 2023. She currently works on the EMA study, including developing scoring protocol for EMA transcriptions, and data analysis. She is completing a master’s thesis under the advisement of Dr. Meier, which she will defend in the spring of 2025. She hopes to work with adults in the medical setting, with a specific passion for adult neurogenic communication disorders. Her research interests include working to improve aspects of functional communication in a social/participation scope for individuals with aphasia.
# Undergraduate Research Assistants
#### Keith Huang
Keith is a 2nd year in the class of 2026, pursuing a BS in Health Science. In the lab, he is involved in fNIRS data analysis. His interests include neurodegenerative diseases and the technologies used to study and diagnose them, as well as the link between neurodegenerative diseases, aging, and aphasia. Outside of TAN lab, Keith is a co-chair for the Pan-Asian American Queer Alliance and is active in the Northeastern University Dragon and Lion Dance Troupe. He also loves photography and exploring the processes used to print and develop images, and is on a mission to try every matcha latte in Boston. In the future, Keith hopes to continue pursuing research in speech and hearing sciences in an MD-PhD program.
#### Caela Hung
Caela is a 4th year PlusOne student pursuing a degree in Speech-Language Pathology & Audiology. She is interested in the neurology of communication, swallowing disorders, and AAC. In the lab, she is currently involved in studying post-stroke aphasia language recovery models through functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) analysis. Outside of the lab, she enjoys traveling to new places and spending time with her family and friends. 
#### Shriya Karthikvatsan
Shriya Karthikvatsan is a rising fourth year in the TAN lab pursuing a BS in Health Science with minors in Psychology and Cell and Molecular Biology. Her current interests include studying neurodegenerative and cognitive conditions and how they impact language/gait functioning to impact overall quality of life. She has been involved with TAN lab since her freshman year, first assisting in the Public Knowledge of Stroke Survey research project and currently helping out as the second assistant in the fNIRS dual-task participant study. Outside of TAN lab, Shriya is on the executive board for the Northeastern Red Cross Club, a Bouvé College of Health Sciences Ambassador, and active in the Northeastern chapter of the Phi Delta Epsilon medical fraternity. She also loves talking about her dog and two cats, exploring all the cafes in the city, and (if weather permits) going to the beach. In the future, she hopes to go to medical school and specialize in pediatrics after pursuing her Master’s in Public Health in the PlusOne program at Northeastern.
#### Pratham Khare
Pratham Khare is a rising second-year in the class of 2027 pursuing a combined major in Behavioral Neuroscience and Data Science on the pre-med track. He is interested in the intersection between the brain and machine learning to understand behavior and cognition. He is currently working to sync near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) software with the digitizer. Outside the lab, Pratham enjoys listening to music and spending time with family.
#### Priyansh Khare
Priyansh Khare is a rising second-year student in the class of 2027 pursuing a combined major in Behavioral Neuroscience and Data Science. He is interested in neurodegenerative disease research and the tools that can be used to potentially mitigate the effects of such conditions. Currently, he is working to improve the digitizer tool so that it can be used to efficiently and accurately collect participant data. Outside of the lab, Priyansh enjoys playing soccer, traveling, and spending time with friends and family.
#### Quinn Pasmantier
Quinn Pasmantier is a third year speech-language pathology and audiology undergraduate student in the class of 2026. Her interests include research into speech synthesis as well as more efficient forms of AAC.She is also interested in the cultural aspects of the field of speech pathology, such as dialects, accents, and communication styles. Outside of the TAN lab, she is an artist for Spectrum Literary Arts magazine, and a dancer/choreographer for No Limits Dance Crew.
#### Divya Ravikumar 
Divya is a rising fourth-year in the class of 2025 at Northeastern University as a combined Bioengineering and Biochemistry major. She is interested in neurodegenerative diseases and the technology utilized to study them, like fNIRS imaging. Outside of lab, she is a writer for the NU Science magazine, loves reading, and enjoys trying new food.
#### Jahnavi Srikanth
Jahnavi Srikanth is a rising second year in the class of 2027 pursuing a major in Speech-language Pathology and Audiology with a minor is Psychology. Being bilingual herself, Jahnavi’s interests lie in bilingual neurogenerative disease research and the broader implications of bilingualism in Communication Sciences and Disorders. Currently, she is engaged in data transcription for the Smart-watch (EMA) study. Beyond the lab, Jahnavi finds joy in exploring her passions for singing and music as well as learning new languages!
