During the Spring 2026 semester, PHDL 7600: Leading Self and Others (CRN 39047) will meet Tuesday 11:45 AM – 01:25 PM online and Wednesday 05:00 PM – 07:00 PM in-person in Sterns 431. 
Offered to all PhD students across Northeastern, the LEADERs program is among a growing number of niche initiatives developed to give students context-based experiences that will help prepare them to be impactful researchers in academia or beyond. The LEADERs program—Leadership Education Advancing Discovery through Embedded Research— integrates leadership and professional-skills education with a research project at an organization in industry or the public sector. These experiences enrich students’ communication, organization, and research skills, as well as organizations’ access to project-ready candidates that bring fresh research talent and thinking.
#### How does LEADERs work?
> LEADERs was developed by Northeastern’s PhD Network and its Gordon Institute of Engineering Leadership, recognized nationally for preparing graduates to lead projects and people. Designed for PhD students who have completed at least one year of study, LEADERs confers professional skills essential for careers in and beyond academia. Self-nominated applicants must also receive a confirming nomination by their faculty advisor. Selected students will pursue an Experiential PhD Leadership certificate.
> Classes taught by faculty and distinguished leaders in an array of fields explore organizational systems, communications, project management, teamwork, follower- ship, and leadership. In the program’s second half, students put theory into practice through a project aligned with their interests and designed jointly by an industry partner and faculty advisor.
> Students have the opportunity to be matched with an organization for a LEADERs internship that an be 20 – 40 hours a week for up to twelve months. Students matched with an organization are recognized as LEADERs Fellows. 
> Interested in exploring current LEADERs internship opportunities? Explore our [LEADERs Opportunities](https://app.smartsheet.com/b/publish?EQBCT=e9e75df38af3489684d268e4566702fa). You will need your Northeastern credentials to log in.
#### How do PhD students benefit?
> Students explore principles of leadership and teamwork together, then put their knowledge into practice. They receive guidance from a mentoring system that includes a representative from the partner organization, and leadership programming.
> As they build their skills and portfolio, all students have opportunities to expand their professional network and explore diverse career paths.
#### What do partners gain?
> Partners gain customized solutions from a superbly talented and dedicated PhD student. They gain access to faculty experts and the resources of a global research university. Further, they establish a pipeline for engaging and recruiting graduates who are the right fit for their organization.
> Partnerships with Northeastern are aligned with business, technological, and societal imperatives—and designed to transform our world. IP arrangements are  designed to work for all parties.
#### Questions, or just looking for more information?
Fill out my [online form](https://provostweb.wufoo.com/forms/z1saf33u105cvvm).
