[Skip to content](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/the-brownies-book/#content)
[ Stories](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/stories)
[Alumni and Completed Research Projects](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/category/completed-projects/)
# THE BROWNIES’ BOOK: Mapping Black Boston Education Histories
Cover Drawing for the July 1920 issue of TBB. The image depicts three males young, middle-aged, and elderly (left to right) each saluting, and attired in uniforms suggesting military service. In the background is the Crispus Attucks Monument (located in Boston, MA Boston Commons). The cover suggests a genealogical lineage of Black military service and a pronounced goal to honor Black servicemen.
**Partially supported by a NULab** [**Seedling Grant**](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/research/seedling-grants/)**.**
Feature image: Cover Drawing for the July 1920 issue of TBB. The image depicts three males young, middle-aged, and elderly (left to right) each saluting, and attired in uniforms suggesting military service. In the background is the Crispus Attucks Monument (located in Boston, MA Boston Commons). The cover suggests a genealogical lineage of Black military service and a pronounced goal to honor Black servicemen._[Image source](https://www.loc.gov/resource/rbc0001.2004ser01351/?sp=205)._
Long-taught in U.S. Education, and globally, is the idea that Boston, Massachusetts was the locus of action and conflict that begat the American Revolution and the United States. This is to say that Boston has become culturally narrativized vis-à-vis England in ideologies of “America” and Americanization, patriotism and national identity, and supposed “freedom”—likewise, these stories of the city have produced specific ideas of U.S. citizenship in/as a democratic republic. But we know, then and now, that Boston was far from free for enslaved Black people and Indigenous communities robbed of their lands. Walking the streets of Boston today, even, means confronting histories and public education in real-time.
Boston, MA presents a provocative case study for U.S. rhetorical education histories, particularly for American citizenship at the intersection of race and space. THE BROWNIES’ BOOKTHE BROWNIES’ BOOK THE BROWNIES’ BOOK
The initiative to “map” THE BROWNIES’ BOOK THE BROWNIES’ BOOK
Figure 1
The 2022-2023 NULab Seedling Grant supports archival research, development, and online hosting of a digital interactive map that illustrates Black-Boston historical sites discussed in THE BROWNIES’ BOOK THE BROWNIES’ BOOKTHE BROWNIES’ BOOKBROWNIES’ 
As an interactive digital map featuring Boston’s geographic landscape, this project will spatialize and visualize connections between early Black Boston histories and 20th century Black children’s rhetorical education. Notable in THE BROWNIES’ BOOK prominent 18th and 19th century Black Boston figures and sites publishes letters, stories, and essays from early 20th c. Black children readers and parents from Boston 
Figure 2
This map is set to be part of Tieanna Graphenreed’s dissertation and larger digital project THE BROWNIES’ BOOK INDEX, THE BROWNIES’ BOOK
“THE BROWNIES’ BOOK [Norman B. Leventhal Map & Education Center](https://www.leventhalmap.org/) at Boston Public Libraries.
Figure 1. Testimonial letter, written by fifteen-year old Ruth Halliwell of Boston, Mass. In the letter, Halliwell expresses that sheand her little sister, Katie, enjoyTHE BROWNIES’ BOOK. She tells a relays a story that Katie had just received her first copy ofTHE BROWNIES’ BOOK, and that Katie is especially enamored with the Queen of Abyssinia [a reference to a photograph in theFrontispiece of the inaugural January 1920 issue]: “She says, ‘that little girl don’t look very old; maybe when I’m as big asher, I’llbe a creen, too.’ We are all interested in the magazine. I am fifteen and I like it as much as Katie.”(The Jury, Halliwell; MARCH 1920)
Figure 2.“Little People of the Month” in the September 1920 issue ofTHE BROWNIES’ BOOK. This column celebrates theaccomplishments of Brownies’ who have written to the Editors about their recent accomplishments or have otherwise beennominated for recognition by parents, teachers, or other children/youth. In the bottom left each page is a brief acknowledgementand photograph, respectively, of Lois M. Jones, a 14-year-old girl from Boston, Mass. who is reported to have won her secondscholarship at the Museum of Fine Arts. Jones is an Honors student attending the High School of Practical Arts at Boston.
Presentations
“Data Play/Grounds: The Brownies’ Book
Panelist. Lightning Talk, “Why an Index? On Archival Absences and Authorship in The Brownies’ Book
“Playing Tag: Meta(Data), Child Authors, and Other Lessons from The Brownies’ Book
Panelist. “Working with Datasets in the Humanities.” Hosted by the DH Hub: A Collaborative Community for Graduate Student and Early-Career Researchers and Practitioners at Northeastern University.
## More Stories
### [ Renewable Messaging of Fossil Fuel Companies: Corporate Communication Strategies in Authoritarian Regimes 01.11.2024](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/renewable-fossil-fuel/) ### [ Exploring Nineteenth Century Marriage Manuals: A NULab Research Project 05.12.2023](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/marriage-manuals-2/)
### [Encoding A Narrative of the Life of Mrs. Mary Jemison for the Women Writers Project: NULab + DITI Research Project 04.11.24 Alumni and Completed Research Projects ](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/encoding-a-narrative-of-the-life-of-mrs-mary-jemison-for-the-women-writers-project-nulab-diti-research-project/)
