[Skip to content](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/nulab-grants-fall-2025-cfp/#content)
[ Stories](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/stories)
[News](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/category/news/) 10.28.25
# NULab Grants Fall 2025 CFP
The NULab is once again inviting proposals for seedling, community collaboration, travel, and events co-sponsorship grants related to digital humanities and computational social science. The deadline is November 10, 2025. Proposals should be submitted by completing this form. se.rogers@northeastern.edu.
Seedling and community collaboration grant proposals should be no more than 2 pages. Please see the grants process page for more information on proposal requirements[previously funded projects](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/research/seedling-grants/) are listed on the NULab’s website. 
Seedling and community collaboration grants (up to $2500) are intended to support pilot research to begin a longer-term research project. Grant funds could be used for costs such as:
  * to pay for RA time on research projects
  * to purchase data sets needed for research
  * to purchase access to tools, software, or other resources
  * to fund travel costs for meetings that are essential to initiate or further a research project
  * to compensate community partners for time engaged in collaborations


No grant of more than $2500 will typically be awarded in any given case nor will grants totaling more than $2500 be awarded to any single individual in a given year. Any NULab faculty or research affiliate may apply. Graduate students are also eligible to apply for NULab seedling and community collaboration grants, although any projects involving a budget for graduate or undergraduate student labor should have a faculty advisor. 
Recipients of NULab seedling and community collaboration grants are expected to provide a project description for inclusion on the NULab website soon after the award, write a blog post on the project once it is underway, and present on the project in an informal work-in-progress session for the Digital Humanities Open Office Hours series; Boston-based projects are also expected to use the NULab working room in the [Centers for Digital Scholarship](https://nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcds.library.northeastern.edu%2F&data=05%7C02%7Cpeifer.s%40northeastern.edu%7C0a26405b9e464845a24208de164f547e%7Ca8eec281aaa34daeac9b9a398b9215e7%7C0%7C0%7C638972727130485130%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=cSn2WCcvtM6p7s4WZR0b0OGUey9IFvYFK7ukQ7xvUeo%3D&reserved=0). Boston-based projects receive keycard access to this newly renovated space on the third floor of Snell Library. Grant recipients will also be required to attend NULab grant recipient cohort meetings to share their progress and challenges with fellow project teams.
Please note that we will not be accepting applications for travel or cosponsorship grants during this application cycle. There will also be fewer overall grants awarded. For all grants, awarded funds should be spent within one calendar year of the award date.
Helpful tips: We receive many more applications than we can fund. Successful proposals have outlined the development of new projects. Successful projects also identify how they might lead to larger initiatives and additional funding opportunities. 
Please refer to the [grants process page](https://nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcssh.northeastern.edu%2Fnulab%2Fresearch%2Fseedling-grants%2Fcall-for-proposals-process%2F&data=05%7C02%7Cpeifer.s%40northeastern.edu%7C0a26405b9e464845a24208de164f547e%7Ca8eec281aaa34daeac9b9a398b9215e7%7C0%7C0%7C638972727130500635%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Nk4mE69wPzoGed%2FEC%2Bbzh4djH6vKFwLkuMXNMK0asHs%3D&reserved=0) for detailed information on submission requirements and eligibility. 
## More Stories
### [ NULab Faculty Nicole Aljoe Edited New Cambridge Companion to Mary Prince 10.09.2025](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/nulab-faculty-nicole-aljoe-edited-new-cambridge-companion-to-mary-prince/) ### [ NULab Fall 2025 Calendar of Events 10.02.2025](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/nulab-fall-2025-calendar-of-events/)
### [NULab Faculty John Wihbey Publishes Article in Time Magazine on Social Media Regulation 10.21.25 News ](https://cssh.northeastern.edu/nulab/nulab-faculty-john-wihbey-time-social-media-regulation/)
