# Important Updates
This guidance is for the Northeastern Community on U.S. Campuses. Please always review OGS’ resources on Travel prior to making plans to travel inside or outside of the U.S. Please continue to review OGS’ Frequently Asked Questions on planning travel (requires NU credentials) September 8, 2025 Update On September 6, 2025, the U.S…. [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/post-u-s-election-travel-recommendations/ "Read 2025 Current Travel Recommendations")
On October 29, 2025, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued an interim final rule that ends the practice of automatically extending employment authorization documents (EADs) for certain categories of individuals who apply for renewal. This change does not impact F-1 alumni applying for the STEM OPT extension. F-1 alumni continue to qualify for an automatic 180-day extension of employment… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/dhs-ends-automatic-ead-extensions-for-certain-applicants/ "Read DHS Ends Automatic EAD Extensions for Certain Applicants")
On September 6, 2025, the U.S. Department of State (DoS) announced that effective immediately, applicants for U.S. nonimmigrant visas, including F-1, F-2, J-1, and J-2 visas, “should schedule their visa interview appointments at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their country of nationality or residence”. If you are from a country where the U.S. is… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/visa-interview-appointments-must-be-scheduled-in-country-of-residence-or-nationality/ "Read Visa Interview Appointments Should Be Scheduled in Country of Residence or Nationality")
On August 28, 2025, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) published a proposed rule that would eliminate “Duration of Status (D/S)” for individuals in F and J nonimmigrant status. This is a proposed rule only and, at present, nothing has changed. More on this below. What is Duration of Status (D/S)? Most… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/dhs-proposed-rule-on-f-and-j-duration-of-status/ "Read DHS Proposed Rule on F and J “Duration of Status”")
Dear Northeastern Students and Alumni, Beginning on December 7, 2023, OGS deactivated its general office email addresses and implement a newly designed inquiry form in our self-service portal. Effective immediately, students are encouraged to contact OGS through one of the below methods for any inquiries or concerns: Submit a question online through our new inquiry… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/changes-to-ogs-communications/ "Read IMPORTANT CHANGES TO OGS COMMUNICATIONS: Inquiry Form is Live!")
June 20, 2025 – U.S. Department of State Resumes Scheduling F/J Visa Appointments! The U.S. Department of State has officially resumed scheduling visa interviews for F-1 and J-1 student visa applicants. This means that students and scholars can now book their visa appointment at a local U.S. embassy or consulate. This is great news for all incoming… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/u-s-department-of-state-pauses-new-visa-issuance/ "Read U.S. Department of State Resumes New Visa Issuance")
August 19, 2025: USCIS Considers “Anti-American” Activity when Adjudicating Applications When adjudicating certain immigration benefit requests, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) officers will now consider whether an applicant has: “…endorsed, promoted, supported, or otherwise espoused anti-American views or the views of a terrorist organization or group (including in social media content by, or involving… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/uscis-policy-changes/ "Read USCIS Policy Changes – Updated September 2025")
Effective September 2, 2025, the U.S. Department of State will require that all F-1 and J-1 students and scholars, including their F-2 or J-2 dependents, attend in-person interviews at U.S. Embassies or Consulates abroad when applying to renew their visas. This change marks an end to broader flexibility for interview waivers that were provided… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/changes-to-visa-interview-waiver-policy-for-f-j-visa-renewal-applicants/ "Read Changes to Visa Interview Waiver Policy for F/J Visa Renewal Applicants")
As of July 25, 2025, reports indicate that fees for Pre/Post-OPT and STEM OPT now match the fees as outlined by USCIS on their Fee Schedule. We have been notified by several of our international students who are filing I-765s to apply for Pre-Completion OPT (C(3)a), Post-Completion OPT (C(3)b) and the STEM OPT Extension… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/opt-and-stem-opt-fee-errors/ "Read OPT and STEM OPT Fee Errors Reported")
The Office of Global Services (OGS) is closely monitoring recent announcements from federal agencies regarding changes to how gender and sex are recorded in immigration systems and on official documents. What’s changing? Federal agencies, including U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP), have announced that federal systems will… [Read more »](https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/federal-policy-changes-transition-from-gender-to-binary-sex-designations/ "Read Federal Policy Changes: Transition from Gender to Binary Sex Designations")
