[Skip to content](https://sealab.sites.northeastern.edu/portfolio/whose-knowledge-is-valued-epistemic-injustice-in-cscw-applications/#content)
Social computing scholars have long known that people do not interact with knowledge in straightforward ways, especially in digital environments. While policies around knowledge are essential for targeting misinformation, they are value-laden; in choosing how to present information, we undermine non-traditional, often non-Western, ways of knowing. Epistemic injustice is the systemic exclusion of certain people and methods from the knowledge canon. Epistemic injustice chips away at one’s testimony and vocabulary until they are stripped of their due right to know and understand. In this paper, we articulate how epistemic injustice in sociotechnical applications leads to material harm. Inspired by a hybrid collaborative autoethnography of 14 CSCW practitioners, we present three cases of epistemic injustice in sociotechnical applications: online transgender healthcare, identity sensemaking on r/bisexual, and Indigenous ways of knowing on r/AskHistorians. We further explore signature tensions across our autoethnographic materials and relate them to previous CSCW research areas and personal non-technological experiences. We argue that epistemic injustice can serve as a unifying and intersectional lens for CSCW research by surfacing dimensions of epistemic community and power. Finally, we present a call to action of three changes the CSCW community should make to move toward its own goals of research justice. We call for CSCW researchers to center individual experiences, bolster communities, and remediate issues of epistemic power as a means towards epistemic justice. In sum, we recount, synthesize, and propose solutions for the various forms of epistemic injustice that CSCW sites of study—including CSCW itself—propagate.
[Read Author Copy](https://michaelanndevito.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/epinjusticecscw24.pdf)
[Version of Record](https://doi.org/10.1145/3687062)
### Citation
Leah Hope Ajmani, Jasmine C. Foriest, Jordan Taylor, Kyle Pittman, Sarah Gilbert, and Michael Ann DeVito. 2024. Whose Knowledge is Valued? Epistemic Injustice in CSCW Applications. Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact. 8, CSCW2, Article 523 (November 2024), 28 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3687062
close menu
close search
